

This a model from the article:  
**Adenine nucleotide-creatine-phosphate module in myocardial metabolic system explains fast phase of dynamic regulation of oxidative phosphorylation.**   
van Beek JH. _Am J Physiol Cell Physiol_ 2007 Sep;293(3):C815-29
[17581855](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17581855) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Computational models of a large metabolic system can be assembled from modules
that represent a biological function emerging from interaction of a small
subset of molecules. A "skeleton model" is tested here for a module that
regulates the first phase of dynamic adaptation of oxidative phosphorylation
(OxPhos) to demand in heart muscle cells. The model contains only diffusion,
mitochondrial outer membrane (MOM) permeation, and two isoforms of creatine
kinase (CK), in cytosol and mitochondrial intermembrane space (IMS),
respectively. The communication with two neighboring modules occurs via
stimulation of mitochondrial ATP production by ADP and P(i) from the IMS and
via time-varying cytosolic ATP hydrolysis during contraction. Assuming normal
cytosolic diffusion and high MOM permeability for ADP, the response time of
OxPhos (t(mito); generalized time constant) to steps in cardiac pacing rate is
predicted to be 2.4 s. In contrast, with low MOM permeability, t(mito) is
predicted to be 15 s. An optimized MOM permeability of 21 mum/s gives t(mito)
= 3.7 s, in agreement with experiments on rabbit heart with blocked glycolytic
ATP synthesis. The model correctly predicts a lower t(mito) if CK activity is
reduced by 98%. Among others, the following predictions result from the model
analysis: 1) CK activity buffers large ADP oscillations; 2) ATP production is
pulsatile in beating heart, although it adapts slowly to demand with "time
constant" approximately 14 heartbeats; 3) if the muscle isoform of CK is
overexpressed, OxPhos reacts slower to changing workload; and 4) if
mitochondrial CK is overexpressed, OxPhos reacts faster.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **van Beek JH. (2007) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/0b04b5eca948f2f416b1871cd11b3130)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

